State Name
State Medical Examiner's Office
123 Sesame Street

Voice (123)334-2200 – Fax (012)345-6789

Autopsy report

Name: Robert Wilson SME case #52-00001
Date of examination: November 22, 2023

Final Pathological Diagnosis

I. Blunt force trauma to right temporal region
a. Primary impact site: right temporal region
b. Associated injuries: Comminuted fracture of right temporal bone extending into base of skull
c. Extensive subdural and subarachnoid hemorrhage
d. Right temporal lobe contusion and laceration
e. Secondary impact injuries from fall: occipital scalp contusion
f. Clinical history of hypertension and gambling addiction

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00001
Page 5
Opinion

The cause of death of this 45-year-old male is blunt force trauma to the head. From the scene investigation,
autopsy examination and circumstances surrounding the death, as currently known, the manner of death is
classified as homicide.

_______________
Jane Smith, MD
Medical Examiner

____________________
Date signed

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00001
Page 5
External EXAMINATION

Identification
The body is identified at the time of examination by a Medical Examiner tag bearing the decedent's name
"Robert Wilson" and case number 52-00001. Identification was confirmed through fingerprints.

CLOTHING AND PERSONAL EFFECTS
The following articles of clothing and personal effects are on or accompany the body at the time of
examination:
1. Blue dress shirt with blood staining on right collar
2. Black slacks
3. Black leather belt
4. Black dress shoes
5. Black socks
6. White undershirt with blood staining
7. Boxer briefs
8. Empty wallet with ID and gambling receipts

GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The body is that of a well-developed, male appearing consistent with the reported age of 45 years. The
body weighs 195 pounds and measures 70 inches in height. The body is cool to the touch and has been
previously refrigerated. Rigor mortis is 2+ in the jaw and neck. No decomposition changes are noted. The
body has not been embalmed.

The scalp is covered with short brown hair with early graying at temples. The eyes are natural with brown
irides and white sclerae. The ears are normally formed and symmetric. The nose appears normally formed.
The mouth is atraumatic. The oral cavity contains natural teeth in fair condition with several dental
restorations present. The neck is normally formed. The chest is well formed and symmetric. The abdomen is
mildly protuberant.

The upper extremities are normally formed as are the hands. The fingernails are trimmed and clean. The
lower extremities are normally formed as are the feet. The toenails are trimmed. The external genitalia
are those of a normally developed adult male. The back and anus are normally formed.

SCARS AND DISTINGUISHING MARKS
1. A 3-inch surgical scar on the right knee
2. A 1-inch scar on left index finger

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00001
Page 5

EVIDENCE OF MEDICAL THERAPY

None.

EVIDENCE OF INJURIES

HEAD AND NECK
A 4 x 3 inch area of impact injury is present in the right temporal region, consisting of a stellate
laceration measuring 2.5 inches in length with surrounding contusion and abrasion. The underlying temporal
bone shows a comminuted fracture extending into the base of skull. Associated subdural and subarachnoid
hemorrhage is present with right temporal lobe contusion and laceration.

A 3 x 3 inch occipital scalp contusion is present, consistent with secondary impact from fall.

TORSO
None.

EXTREMITIES
Minor abrasions present on right elbow and right palm, consistent with fall impact.