State Name
State Medical Examiner’s Office
123 Sesame Street

Voice (123)334-2200 – Fax (012)345-6789

Autopsy report

Name: Jane Doe SME case #52-00000
Date of examination: January 32, 2052

Final Pathological Diagnosis

I. Gunshot wound of head.
a. Entrance: anterior scalp/forehead.
b. Exit: posterosuperior scalp just right of posterior midline.
c. Pathway: skin and subcutaneous soft tissue of anterior scalp/forehead, calvarial skull, brain,
posterior calvarium and posterosuperior scalp.
d. Associated injuries: perforation of skin and subcutaneous soft tissue of forehead, scalp, face
and posterior scalp. There is extensive fracturing of the calvarial and basilar skull.
Pulpefaction and hemorrhage of brain tissue along the wound pathway. Extensive laceration
and subarachnoid hemorrhage of brain with partial extrusion of brain from posterior exit
wound.
e. Trajectory: front to back.
f. Clinical history of lumbar pain
g. Projectile: no projectile is recovered.
h. Postmortem blood alcohol content of .250

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00000
Page 5
Opinion

The cause of death of this 30-year-old female is self-inflicted gunshot wound of head. From the scene
investigation, autopsy examination and circumstances surrounding the death, as currently known, the
manner of death is classified as suicide.

_______________
Juan Doe, MD
Medical Examiner

____________________
Date signed

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00000
Page 5
External EXAMINATION

Identification
The body is identified at the time of examination by a Medical Examiner tag bearing the decedent’s name
“Jane Doe” and case number 52-00000. Identification was confirmed through fingerprints
CLOTHING AND PERSONAL EFFECTS
The following articles of clothing and personal effects are on or accompany the body at the time of
examination:
1. T-shirt.
2. Down jacket.
3. socks x 2.
4. black pants.
5. Underwear.
6. One pair of high heels.
7. Two empty paper handbags over hands secured by elastic bands
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The body is that of a well-developed, female appearing consistent with the reported age of 30 years. The
body weighs 180 pounds and measures 65 inches in height. The body is cool to the touch and has been
previously refrigerated. Rigor mortis is 4+ in the extremities. The body is showing faint gray color change
of early decomposition change over a 6 x 8 cm distribution in the left lower quadrant of the chest. The body
has not been embalmed.
The scalp is covered with blonde hair, measuring 13 inches in length. The eyes are natural with blue irides
and white sclerae. The ears are normally formed and symmetric. The nose appears normally formed. The
mouth is atraumatic. The oral cavity contains natural teeth in good condition. The upper and lower frenula
are intact. Two white gauze like paper fragments are between the upper lip and upper jaw. These fragments
measure 2.8 x 2.5 cm in aggregate (two separate pieces). The neck is normally formed. The chest and breasts
are well formed and symmetric. The abdomen is flat.
The upper extremities are normally formed as are the hands. The shoulder to fingertip length of the right
arm is 28 inches. The fingernails are trimmed 1/8 inch beyond the nail beds. The lower extremities are
normally formed as are the feet. The toenails are trimmed 1/16 inch beyond the nail beds. The soles of the
feet are unremarkable. The external genitalia are those of a normally developed adult. The back and anus
are normally formed.
SCARS AND DISTINGUISHING MARKS
1. A tattoo of the name “AARON” on the right lower leg.
2. A tattoo of the outline of the state of West Virginia on the upper left scapula.

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00000
Page 5

EVIDENCE OF MEDICAL THERAPY

Endotracheal tube placed in throat.

EVIDENCE OF INJURIES

HEAD AND NECK
Gunshot wound of head:
Entrance: On the anterior forehead/bridge of the nose is an entrance gunshot wound. The defect shows
extensive laceration and soot staining of skin and underlying calvarial frontal bone. There is soot staining
extending down the bridge of the nose to the distal portion of the nasal skeleton. There is soot staining of
the subcutaneous nasal skeleton. There is internal beveling of the frontal bone between the eyebrows at the
level of the right and left eyebrows/upper ocular rim.
Exit: On the posterior scalp near the posterior vertex, centered 1.5 inches from the top of the head and less
than 1 inch left of the posterior midline is an exit gunshot wound. There is extensive laceration of the scalp
in this region. There is protruding hemorrhagic brain from this region. No evidence of marginal abrasion is
present.
Pathway: The wound pathway continues through the skin and subcutaneous soft tissue of the anterior scalp
between the eyebrows, calvarial skull, brain, calvarial skull and posterosuperior scalp.
Associated Injuries: Associated injuries include perforation of skin and subcutaneous soft tissues at the
entrance wound predominantly of the anterior forehead in the anterior midline with underlying extensive
fracturing of the calvarial skull and basilar skull. There is fracture of the posterior calvarial skull and
laceration of the posterior scalp at the exit site. There is extensive pulpefaction and hemorrhage of brain
tissue along the wound pathway. There is extensive laceration of right and left hemispheres of the brain
with global subarachnoid hemorrhage noted. There is laceration and partial extrusion of pulpified brain
tissue from the posterior superior exit wound.
A 5 x 2 cm area of pink-purple contusion is on the left lower eyelid extending to the bridge of the nose.
A 3 x 2.5 cm area of purple contusion is noted of the right lower eyelid and right cheek just superior to the
zygomatic arch.
TORSO
None.
EXTREMITIES
None.

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00000
Page 5