30 yr old female, med hx chronic lumbar pain, PTSD, and anxiety. SIGSW. No note. Devastating head wound. the police department is not suspicious. SMEO. LADS notified on 13/21/2023 at 1800 hrs.
Addendum by CH: Dr. Juan Doe approved LADS referral.
On 13/20/2023 at 1340 hrs, Trooper John with the police department in the town reported the death of 30 yr old female, Jane Doe due to apparent suicidal causes.
The medical history shows chronic lumbar pain, PTSD, and anxiety. The decedent and her spouse were currently separated. The decedent called her brother to tell him she was going to commit suicide. At 1300 hrs, the brother contacted the police department and reported what his sister told him. the police department went to the address, and there was no answer. The landlord was contacted, and he unlocked the residence for the police department. At 1331 hrs, the police department found the decedent and confirmed the death without intervention due to the decedent having an injury incompatible with life.
The scene is in the living room on the sofa at the decedent’s residence. The indoor temperature was 63 degrees F. A firearm was found on her lap. The shotgun measured 24" from trigger to muzzle. No note was found. Foul play is not suspected. No illicit substances or EtOH were reported.
The decedent was found to be supine on her couch, fully clothed. A devastating head wound was observed. Rigor and lividity were absent. The body was cool to the touch.
The decedent's identity is pending. The NOK is the spouse, Mark Doe, who was not notified at the time of the report. PCP is unknown, records are sought. the police department was requested to bag the hands and transport the decedent to SMEO for further examination. SMEO. LADS was notified on 11/21/2023 at 1800 hrs.
Supplemental: I have some of the missing information for Jane Doe you requested.  We could not find a driver’s license.  I have included a photo of her passport in the photos I sent over.  Her next of kin Mark Doe (husband/separated) was notified the police department at 1400 hrs 11/21/2023.  The distance from muzzle to trigger on the shotgun she used is 22 inches.  Please let me know if you need anything else.






