State Name
State Medical Examiner's Office
123 Sesame Street

Voice (123)334-2200 – Fax (012)345-6789

Autopsy report

Name: James Wilson SME case #52-00001
Date of examination: November 22, 2023

Final Pathological Diagnosis

I. Gunshot wound of chest
a. Entrance: anterior chest, left of midline
b. No exit wound
c. Pathway: skin and subcutaneous tissue of anterior chest, left 4th rib, left lung, heart,
   terminating in posterior thoracic musculature
d. Associated injuries: perforation of left lung and heart with associated hemothorax (850mL left,
   200mL right). Fracture of left 4th rib.
e. Trajectory: front to back, slightly left to right, downward angle of approximately 15 degrees
f. Projectile: one copper-jacketed bullet recovered from posterior thoracic musculature
g. Toxicology positive for cannabis

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00001
Page 5
Opinion

The cause of death of this 25-year-old male is gunshot wound of chest. From the scene investigation,
autopsy examination and circumstances surrounding the death, as currently known, the manner of death
is classified as homicide.

_______________
Jane Smith, MD
Medical Examiner

____________________
Date signed

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00001
Page 5
External EXAMINATION

Identification
The body is identified at the time of examination by a Medical Examiner tag bearing the decedent's name
"James Wilson" and case number 52-00001. Identification was confirmed through fingerprints.

CLOTHING AND PERSONAL EFFECTS
The following articles of clothing and personal effects are on or accompany the body at the time of
examination:
1. White t-shirt with blood staining and defect corresponding to GSW
2. Blue jeans
3. Black boxer briefs
4. White socks
5. Black athletic shoes

GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The body is that of a well-developed, male appearing consistent with the reported age of 25 years. The
body weighs 175 pounds and measures 70 inches in height. The body is cool to the touch and has been
previously refrigerated. Rigor mortis is present in all extremities. Lividity is fixed and posterior.

The scalp is covered with short brown hair. The eyes are natural with brown irides and white sclerae.
The ears are normally formed and symmetric. The nose appears normally formed. The mouth is atraumatic.
The oral cavity contains natural teeth in good condition. The neck is normally formed. The chest is
well formed and symmetric except for gunshot wound. The abdomen is flat and muscular.

The upper and lower extremities are normally formed and muscular. The fingernails and toenails are
trimmed short. The external genitalia are those of a normally developed adult male. The back and anus
are normally formed.

SCARS AND DISTINGUISHING MARKS
1. Appendectomy scar in right lower quadrant of abdomen
2. 2-inch linear scar on right knee

PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT DO NOT DUPLICATE NOR DISTRIBUTE PER AS19.63.020(a)

52-00001
Page 5

EVIDENCE OF MEDICAL THERAPY

None.

EVIDENCE OF INJURIES

CHEST
Gunshot wound of chest:
Entrance: On the anterior left chest wall, 2 inches left of midline and 4 inches below the left clavicle
is a circular entrance wound measuring 9mm in diameter. The wound shows characteristic abrasion collar
and soot deposition consistent with intermediate range fire.

No exit wound is present.

Pathway: The wound track continues through the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the anterior chest wall,
perforates the left 4th rib, continues through the left lung, penetrates the heart through the left
ventricle, and terminates in the posterior thoracic musculature.

Associated Injuries: There is fracture of the left 4th